## [210121] Tuple에 대하여

### 1. 주제를 고른 이유에 대하여

---

파이썬으로 기초 문제들을 풀면서 `Tuple`이라는 자료형이 정말 많이 쓰이는 것을 알 수 있었습니다.

많이 쓰이지만 본인은 잘 모르기 때문에 적절하게 `Tuple`을 사용할 수 없어서 이번 주제는 `Tuple`에 대해서 공부해보려고 합니다.



### 2. Tuple이란?

#### 2.1 [python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/datastructures.html)

---

> A tuple consists of a number of values separated by commas, for instance:
>
> \>>>
>
> ```
> >>> t = 12345, 54321, 'hello!'
> >>> t[0]
> 12345
> >>> t
> (12345, 54321, 'hello!')
> >>> # Tuples may be nested:
> ... u = t, (1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
> >>> u
> ((12345, 54321, 'hello!'), (1, 2, 3, 4, 5))
> >>> # Tuples are immutable:
> ... t[0] = 88888
> Traceback (most recent call last):
>   File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
> TypeError: 'tuple' object does not support item assignment
> >>> # but they can contain mutable objects:
> ... v = ([1, 2, 3], [3, 2, 1])
> >>> v
> ([1, 2, 3], [3, 2, 1])
> ```
>
> As you see, on output tuples are always enclosed in parentheses, so that nested tuples are interpreted correctly; they may be input with or without surrounding parentheses, although often parentheses are necessary anyway (if the tuple is part of a larger expression). It is not possible to assign to the individual items of a tuple, however it is possible to create tuples which contain mutable objects, such as lists.
>
> Though tuples may seem similar to lists, they are often used in different situations and for different purposes. Tuples are [immutable](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-immutable), and usually contain a heterogeneous sequence of elements that are accessed via unpacking (see later in this section) or indexing (or even by attribute in the case of [`namedtuples`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/collections.html#collections.namedtuple)). Lists are [mutable](https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-mutable), and their elements are usually homogeneous and are accessed by iterating over the list.
>
> A special problem is the construction of tuples containing 0 or 1 items: the syntax has some extra quirks to accommodate these. Empty tuples are constructed by an empty pair of parentheses; a tuple with one item is constructed by following a value with a comma (it is not sufficient to enclose a single value in parentheses). Ugly, but effective. For example:
>
> \>>>
>
> ```
> >>> empty = ()
> >>> singleton = 'hello',    # <-- note trailing comma
> >>> len(empty)
> 0
> >>> len(singleton)
> 1
> >>> singleton
> ('hello',)
> ```
>
> The statement `t = 12345, 54321, 'hello!'` is an example of *tuple packing*: the values `12345`, `54321` and `'hello!'` are packed together in a tuple. The reverse operation is also possible:
>
> \>>>
>
> ```
> >>> x, y, z = t
> ```
>
> This is called, appropriately enough, *sequence unpacking* and works for any sequence on the right-hand side. Sequence unpacking requires that there are as many variables on the left side of the equals sign as there are elements in the sequence. Note that multiple assignment is really just a combination of tuple packing and sequence unpacking.



#### 2-2 자가 번역

---

`tuple`은 `,`로 나누어진 수많은 값들로 구성되어있다.

